# Introduction
This repository contains information on producing tidy data for course project for coursera course "Getting And Cleaning Data".
# Input/Raw Data
Raw data are generated by tracking the various activities of 21 training and 9 test subjects (total 30 subjects). The output signals from accelerometer and gyroscope for varous activities of 30 subjects are collected. 
Original data and the details can be found at [human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones)
The input data for this analysis consist of 561 feature points for each subject and for each activity and for multiple times.
# Output
The 78 (only mean and standard deviation from 561 input feature set) feature values for each subject and for each activity are analysed and following output is produced in [Answers.txt](https://github.com/rsamban/RameshS_coursera_GettingAndCleaningData/blob/master/Answer.txt) file.

## Code Book to understand the result
The details of the calculated values in each column are described in [Code Book](https://github.com/rsamban/RameshS_coursera_GettingAndCleaningData/blob/master/CookBook.md)
# Code
## run_analyis.R
The code in this [file](https://github.com/rsamban/RameshS_coursera_GettingAndCleaningData/blob/master/run_analysis.R) produces mean and standard deviation for each measured feature for each subject and for each activity.
This code depends that mesurements from Samsung Smart phone be present in the working directory in the following hierarchy. For detailed explantion of how the source code works, pleas refer inline comments in [run_analysis.R](https://github.com/rsamban/RameshS_coursera_GettingAndCleaningData/blob/master/run_analysis.R)

  * UCI HAR Dataset/features.txt
  * UCI HAR Dataset/activity_labels.txt
  * UCI HAR Dataset/test/X_test.txt
  * UCI HAR Dataset/test/subject_test.txt
  * UCI HAR Dataset/test/y_test.txt
  * UCI HAR Dataset/train/X_train.txt
  * UCI HAR Dataset/train/subject_train.txt
  * UCI HAR Dataset/train/y_train.txt

## How to use the code
run_analysis.R file must be sourced to call single function runAnalysis().

1. source(run_analysis.R)
2a. runAnalysis() - save the result "Answers.txt" file in current working directory.

**OR**

2b. result <- runAnalysis();View(result) - save the result "Answers.txt" file in current working directory and view the result in R Data Viewer